docs/tutorials/dashboard.mdx, before:

---
title: Jellyfish Dashboard
---

import { ImageWrapper } from "./ImageWrapper";
import StartingJellyfishBackend from "./common/_starting-jellyfish-backend.mdx";
import StartingJellyfishDashboard from "./common/_starting-dashboard.mdx";

# The Whats and Hows of Jellyfish Dashboard

## What is Jellyfish Dashboard?

Jellyfish Dashboard is a web application that allows you to manage your Jellyfish backend.
It is a React application that uses the [Jellyfish React Client API](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-client-sdk)
for adding and receiving tracks and [Jellyfish Server API](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/blob/main/openapi.yaml)
for adding peers, creating rooms etc.

It was created to help Jellyfish developers in testing but was later extended and adapted as a tool for tutorials and demos.
Here, we present a short introduction to the dashboard and its features.

## How to start Jellyfish Dashboard?

<StartingJellyfishDashboard/>

## How to start Jellyfish Backend?

<StartingJellyfishBackend/>

## How to use Jellyfish Dashboard?

Since we have Dashboard and Jellyfish backend up and running, we can dive into
the features.

### Connecting to the server

We started the dashboard and the backend separately, so we need to connect them.

1. Open the dashboard in your browser. Open the side menu and fill in the parameters:

![Dashboard server connection](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server.png)

- **Server token** - a token necessary to authenticate the dashboard with the backend. For now, it's simply `development`,
but it is meant to authenticate the dashboard to the backend, so the good practice is to use a token that is hard to guess.
- **WS/WSS** - whether to use a secure or insecure connection. , it's `ws`, but if the backend uses secure WebSocket, use `wss`.
- **HTTP/HTTPS** - whether to use a secure or insecure connection. By default, it's `http`, but if the backend uses secure HTTP, use `https`.
- **Server URL** - URL of the backend server. Here, `localhost:5002` would be a local build, but it can be any URL that points to the backend.
- **Socket Path** - path to the WebSocket endpoint. The default value is `/socket/peer/websocket`.

2. Click **Connect to server**. If everything is correct, a server will appear in the list of connected servers:

![Connected dashboard](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_connected.png)

### Creating a room

There are plenty of settings that You can adjust in a room:

![Adding Room](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_add_room.png)

- **h264 or vp8** - video codec used in the room. If you want to use `HLS` streaming, you need to use `h264`.
- **Max Peers** - maximum number of peers that can join to the room.

When you select the settings, click the **Add room** button. If everything is correct, a room will appear in the list of rooms:

![Room added](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_room_added.png)

### Adding and connecting peers to the room

Using the **Create peer** button, you can create a peer that will be ready to connect to the room.

![Peer created](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_created.png)

The peer has its `ID` and `Token`.
The `ID` is used to identify the peer in the Jellyfish Server, and the `Token` is used to authenticate the peer with the Jellyfish Server.

Dashboard has an option to copy both of those values to the clipboard.
You can also create a QR code with the peer's `Token` to make connecting to Jellyfish with a mobile device easier.

![Peer copied](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_copied.png)

To connect the peer to the room, you can either press the **Connect** button in the peer's row, or scan the QR code with your mobile app, and connect there.

### Sending tracks

When the peer connects to the room, you will see the track menu.
It allows you to send tracks to the room.

![Track menu](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_track_menu.png)

You can select the _audio or video tracks_ you want to send to the room.
Apart from your camera/microphone, there is an option to pick one from a list of _mock tracks_ that we prepared.

You can also select the _resolution_ of the video track or if you want, send the video as a _simulcast_ stream.

There is also an option to add custom _metadata_ (in JSON format) to the track.
The peer will send metadata with the track to the room. Each recipient will be able to see it.

When you select the track, click the **Add track** button.
If everything is correct, client will send the track to the room and other peers will be able to see and hear you.

### Receiving tracks

When the peer connects to the room, it will automatically receive tracks from other peers.

**Congrats! The basic utils of the dashboard are now covered. Next, we will dive into useful features that will help you with testing.**

## A ton of information that the dashboard provides

### Server logs in console


On the side menu, you can set up the dashboard to display React Client logs in the console.
Logs are great for debugging purposes and provide insight into the various communications that occur between the dashboard and the backend.
You can also register your event handlers in your Jellyfish-based projects, both in the
[React Client SDK](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-client-sdk) and the[TS Client SDK](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/ts-client-sdk).
These logs can show you when particular events occur and provide data that you can use in your own handlers


<ImageWrapper
    url={"/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_logs.png"}
    height={500}
    alt="Server logs"
/>


### Server/Room/Client state

Each server, room, and client has its state. You can see the state of each of them in the dashboard by clicking appropriate buttons.

![Server state](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_states.png)

### Server events

Apart from the state, you can also see the events that occur on the server.

You can see them after clicking the **Show Server Events** button.

![Server events](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_events.png)

## HLS and RTSP streaming

The dashboard allows adding HLS and RTSP streams in the room.
You can set up the streams and see them in the room. It will look like this:

![HLS and RTSP](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_hls_rtsp.png)

## Loadbalancing in Dashboard

Jellyfish Server supports load balancing.
This means you can run multiple instances of the server and use them simultaneously to distribute the load evenly among them.
The dashboard reflects this feature.
If you run multiple Jellyfish instances (which [Docker Compose](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) does by default),
connect one server to the dashboard.
When a server opens a room on a different instance, the Dashboard will automatically connect to it and display the room.
When Jellyfish runs in a cluster, and the Dashboard requests a new room, it's created on the Jellyfish instance with the lowest load.
Information about the specific Jellyfish instance that hosts the newly created room is returned in the HTTP response body.

## Summary

Congrats on finishing the tutorial! You should now be able to use the dashboard to its full potential.

But this was just the beginning.
Jellyfish Client API is a powerful tool that allows you to create your own web or mobile multimedia application.
Check out the other tutorials to learn more about the Jellyfish Client API and how to use it in your projects.

You can also take a look at our fully featured [Videoroom Demo example](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-native-membrane-webrtc/tree/master/example):

<ImageWrapper url={"/img/tutorials/videoroom.gif"} alt="Videoroom Demo"/>

It's written in React Native, but it uses the same Jellyfish Client API as the dashboard, so you can learn a lot from it.

Commit message:

Change word  to Jellyfish (Media Server)

docs/tutorials/dashboard.mdx, after:

---
title: Jellyfish Dashboard
---

import { ImageWrapper } from "./ImageWrapper";
import StartingJellyfishMediaServer from "./common/_starting-jellyfish-media-server.mdx";
import StartingJellyfishDashboard from "./common/_starting-dashboard.mdx";

# The Whats and Hows of Jellyfish Dashboard

## What is Jellyfish Dashboard?

Jellyfish Dashboard is a web application that allows you to manage your Jellyfish Media Server instance.
It is a React application that uses the [Jellyfish React Client API](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-client-sdk)
for adding and receiving tracks and [Jellyfish Server API](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/blob/main/openapi.yaml)
for adding peers, creating rooms etc.

It was created to help Jellyfish developers in testing but was later extended and adapted as a tool for tutorials and demos.
Here, we present a short introduction to the dashboard and its features.

## How to start Jellyfish Dashboard?

<StartingJellyfishDashboard/>

## How to start Jellyfish Media Server?

<StartingJellyfishMediaServer/>

## How to use Jellyfish Dashboard?

Since we have Dashboard and Jellyfish Media Server up and running, we can dive into
the features.

### Connecting to the server

We started the dashboard and the Jellyfish Media Server separately, so we need to connect them.

1. Open the dashboard in your browser. Open the side menu and fill in the parameters:

![Dashboard server connection](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server.png)

- **Server token** - a token necessary to authenticate the dashboard with the Jellyfish. For now, it's simply `development`,
but it is meant to authenticate the dashboard to the Jellyfish, so the good practice is to use a token that is hard to guess.
- **WS/WSS** - whether to use a secure or insecure connection. , it's `ws`, but if the Jellyfish uses secure WebSocket, use `wss`.
- **HTTP/HTTPS** - whether to use a secure or insecure connection. By default, it's `http`, but if the Jellyfish uses secure HTTP, use `https`.
- **Server URL** - URL of the Jellyfish server. Here, `localhost:5002` would be a local build, but it can be any URL that points to the Jellyfish.
- **Socket Path** - path to the WebSocket endpoint. The default value is `/socket/peer/websocket`.

2. Click **Connect to server**. If everything is correct, a server will appear in the list of connected servers:

![Connected dashboard](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_connected.png)

### Creating a room

There are plenty of settings that You can adjust in a room:

![Adding Room](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_add_room.png)

- **h264 or vp8** - video codec used in the room. If you want to use `HLS` streaming, you need to use `h264`.
- **Max Peers** - maximum number of peers that can join to the room.

When you select the settings, click the **Add room** button. If everything is correct, a room will appear in the list of rooms:

![Room added](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_room_added.png)

### Adding and connecting peers to the room

Using the **Create peer** button, you can create a peer that will be ready to connect to the room.

![Peer created](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_created.png)

The peer has its `ID` and `Token`.
The `ID` is used to identify the peer in the Jellyfish Server, and the `Token` is used to authenticate the peer with the Jellyfish Server.

Dashboard has an option to copy both of those values to the clipboard.
You can also create a QR code with the peer's `Token` to make connecting to Jellyfish with a mobile device easier.

![Peer copied](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_peer_copied.png)

To connect the peer to the room, you can either press the **Connect** button in the peer's row, or scan the QR code with your mobile app, and connect there.

### Sending tracks

When the peer connects to the room, you will see the track menu.
It allows you to send tracks to the room.

![Track menu](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_track_menu.png)

You can select the _audio or video tracks_ you want to send to the room.
Apart from your camera/microphone, there is an option to pick one from a list of _mock tracks_ that we prepared.

You can also select the _resolution_ of the video track or if you want, send the video as a _simulcast_ stream.

There is also an option to add custom _metadata_ (in JSON format) to the track.
The peer will send metadata with the track to the room. Each recipient will be able to see it.

When you select the track, click the **Add track** button.
If everything is correct, client will send the track to the room and other peers will be able to see and hear you.

### Receiving tracks

When the peer connects to the room, it will automatically receive tracks from other peers.

**Congrats! The basic utils of the dashboard are now covered. Next, we will dive into useful features that will help you with testing.**

## A ton of information that the dashboard provides

### Server logs in console


On the side menu, you can set up the dashboard to display React Client logs in the console.
Logs are great for debugging purposes and provide insight into the various communications that occur between the dashboard and the Jellyfish Server.
You can also register your event handlers in your Jellyfish-based projects, both in the
[React Client SDK](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-client-sdk) and the[TS Client SDK](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/ts-client-sdk).
These logs can show you when particular events occur and provide data that you can use in your own handlers


<ImageWrapper
    url={"/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_logs.png"}
    height={500}
    alt="Server logs"
/>


### Server/Room/Client state

Each server, room, and client has its state. You can see the state of each of them in the dashboard by clicking appropriate buttons.

![Server state](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_states.png)

### Server events

Apart from the state, you can also see the events that occur on the server.

You can see them after clicking the **Show Server Events** button.

![Server events](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_server_events.png)

## HLS and RTSP streaming

The dashboard allows adding HLS and RTSP streams in the room.
You can set up the streams and see them in the room. It will look like this:

![HLS and RTSP](/img/tutorials/dashboard/dashboard_hls_rtsp.png)

## Loadbalancing in Dashboard

Jellyfish Server supports load balancing.
This means you can run multiple instances of the server and use them simultaneously to distribute the load evenly among them.
The dashboard reflects this feature.
If you run multiple Jellyfish instances (which [Docker Compose](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) does by default),
connect one server to the dashboard.
When a server opens a room on a different instance, the Dashboard will automatically connect to it and display the room.
When Jellyfish runs in a cluster, and the Dashboard requests a new room, it's created on the Jellyfish instance with the lowest load.
Information about the specific Jellyfish instance that hosts the newly created room is returned in the HTTP response body.

## Summary

Congrats on finishing the tutorial! You should now be able to use the dashboard to its full potential.

But this was just the beginning.
Jellyfish Client API is a powerful tool that allows you to create your own web or mobile multimedia application.
Check out the other tutorials to learn more about the Jellyfish Client API and how to use it in your projects.

You can also take a look at our fully featured [Videoroom Demo example](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/react-native-membrane-webrtc/tree/master/example):

<ImageWrapper url={"/img/tutorials/videoroom.gif"} alt="Videoroom Demo"/>

It's written in React Native, but it uses the same Jellyfish Client API as the dashboard, so you can learn a lot from it.
