docs/getting_started/components/hls.md, before:

# HLS

Creates HLS playlist that is ready to be broadcasted via CDN.
Read more about HLS [here](https://developer.apple.com/streaming/).

## Compatibility

* [WebRTC](../peers/webrtc.md)
* [RTSP](../components/rtsp.md)

## Requirements

* The [Room](../../introduction/basic_concepts\#room) in which the HLS component is created must have the video codec set to H264.
See [API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/room/operation/create_room) for more information.
* Max 1 HLS component allowed per room.

## Configuration options

**Optional**

* `lowLatency` (boolean, default: false) - whether the component should use LL-HLS
* `persistent` (boolean, default: false) - whether the stream should be saved or not
* `targetWindowDuration` (positive integer, default: null) - represents the duration, in seconds, of the live streaming content to be
    maintained in a rolling window. If set to null (default), the entire stream will be available.
* `s3` (object, default: nil) - AWS S3 credentials. If credentials are set, the stream will be saved to the specified bucket.

## Env variables

Currently, there are no environment variables related to this component.

## Output

After adding a WebRTC peer (and at least one track) or an RTSP component, the HLS stream will be available
under `http://<jellyfish-address>/hls/<room_id>/index.m3u8` (or `https://`, if using TLS).

## Recordings

After a meeting that integrates an HLS component (with the persistent option set to true) ends, the meeting is preserved as a recording. 
To manage this recording, use the [Recording API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/recording).
The recording is also available as HLS Video On Demand (VOD) [API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/recording/operation/getRecordingContent).

## Store HLS stream on S3
You can directly store your HLS streams on S3. 
This solution will automatically send your streams to an AWS bucket right after the end of your meetings.
When initializing your stream, simply include your S3 credentials as part of the configuration [API](http://localhost:3000/jellyfish-docs/next/for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/room/operation/add_component).

## Example Docker commands

The HLS playlist will be created inside the Docker container. To access it from the host,
you need to create a volume, e.g. by adding the option `-v $(pwd)/jellyfish_output:/app/jellyfish_output`
to your Docker command.

Other than that, your Docker commands shouldn't be affected by adding this component.

```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080/tcp \
           -e JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN=token \
           -e JF_HOST=localhost:8080 \
           -v $(pwd)/jellyfish_output:/app/jellyfish_output \
           ghcr.io/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish:0.2.0
```

Commit message:

Add docs: hls subscribe mode (#66)
* Add docs: hls subscribe mode

* Update docs/getting_started/components/hls.md

Co-authored-by: Michał Śledź <michalsledz34@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Michał Śledź <michalsledz34@gmail.com>

docs/getting_started/components/hls.md, after:

# HLS

Creates HLS playlist that is ready to be broadcasted via CDN.
Read more about HLS [here](https://developer.apple.com/streaming/).

## Compatibility

* [WebRTC](../peers/webrtc.md)
* [RTSP](../components/rtsp.md)

## Requirements

* The [Room](../../introduction/basic_concepts\#room) in which the HLS component is created must have the video codec set to H264.
See [API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/room/operation/create_room) for more information.
* Max 1 HLS component allowed per room.

## Configuration options

**Optional**

* `lowLatency` (boolean, default: false) - whether the component should use LL-HLS
* `persistent` (boolean, default: false) - whether the stream should be saved or not
* `targetWindowDuration` (positive integer, default: null) - represents the duration, in seconds, of the live streaming content to be
    maintained in a rolling window. If set to null (default), the entire stream will be available.
* `s3` (object, default: nil) - AWS S3 credentials. If credentials are set, the stream will be saved to the specified bucket.

## Env variables

Currently, there are no environment variables related to this component.

## Output

After adding a WebRTC peer (and at least one track) or an RTSP component, the HLS stream will be available
under `http://<jellyfish-address>/hls/<room_id>/index.m3u8` (or `https://`, if using TLS).

## Recordings

After a meeting that integrates an HLS component (with the persistent option set to true) ends, the meeting is preserved as a recording. 
To manage this recording, use the [Recording API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/recording).
The recording is also available as HLS Video On Demand (VOD) [API](../../for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/recording/operation/getRecordingContent).

## Manual subscription

If you do not want the HLS component to automatically subscribe to all available tracks, you can set the `subscribeMode` option to `manual`.
In this mode, the HLS component will only subscribe to tracks that you explicitly instruct it to subscribe to using the subscription [API](http://localhost:3000/jellyfish-docs/next/for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/hls/operation/subscribe_tracks).

## Store HLS stream on S3

You can directly store your HLS streams on S3. 
This solution will automatically send your streams to an AWS bucket right after the end of your meetings.
When initializing your stream, simply include your S3 credentials as part of the configuration [API](http://localhost:3000/jellyfish-docs/next/for_developers/api_reference/rest_api#tag/room/operation/add_component).

## Example Docker commands

The HLS playlist will be created inside the Docker container. To access it from the host,
you need to create a volume, e.g. by adding the option `-v $(pwd)/jellyfish_output:/app/jellyfish_output`
to your Docker command.

Other than that, your Docker commands shouldn't be affected by adding this component.

```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080/tcp \
           -e JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN=token \
           -e JF_HOST=localhost:8080 \
           -v $(pwd)/jellyfish_output:/app/jellyfish_output \
           ghcr.io/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish:0.2.0
```
