docs/cluster.md, before:

# Cluster

Jellyfish comes with a built-in clustering mechanism.
By a cluster, we mean a set of connected Jellyfish instances.
Whenever a new request for creating a room is sent to one of Jellyfishes in a cluster, this Jellyfish
communicates with all other nodes and creates a room on the node with the lowest load.
In response, a Jellyfish address (specified with `JF_HOST` environment variable) where the room was created is returned.

:::caution

Even when running a cluster of Jellyfishes, a room still has to fit into one Jellyfish.
Currently, Jellyfish doesn't offer an option to split a room across multiple machines.

:::

## Configuring a Cluster

Currently Jellyfish supports two clustering strategy `DNS` and `EPMD`.
Configuration for each strategy is described below.
But before that you need to set two flags:
1. Enable distribution mode with `JF_DIST_ENABLED=true`
2. Define which distribution strategy will be used with `JF_DIST_STRATEGY_NAME`

:::tip Distribution Environment Variables

List of all cluster-related environment variables is available [here](./getting_started/installation#distribution).

:::

:::tip Configure HTTP and metrics ports so they don't overlap with other nodes.

You can do this with `JF_PORT` and `JF_METRICS_PORT` environment variables.

:::

:::warning Security

Currently, Jellyfish distribution is not encrypted meaning that data between
Jellyfishes is sent as plain text.
Cookie does not provide any cryptographic security.
Do run a cluster only across machines in the same network!

:::

:::caution Extra network Configuration

Jellyfish leverages Erlang Distribution to form a cluster.
This means that we don't need to use any database where we would store
information about network topology.
Instead, some extra network configuration might be needed.

#### EPMD strategy

When using EPMD to finish distribution configuration you need to set additional two flags:
1. Give your node a name with `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME`
2. Specify a list of nodes to connect to with `JF_DIST_NODES`


* Jellyfish uses a service called EPMD (Erlang Port Mapper Deamon)
that runs on port `4369` (TCP).
If you run Jellyfish using Docker, you have to explicitly export this port.
In production deployment, you also have to allow for traffic on this port in your firewall.
EPMD is started automatically when running Jellyfish, so you don't need to take
any extra steps to make it work.

* Jellyfish uses a random port for connecting to other Jellyfishes.
If you run Jellyfish using Docker, this port defaults to `9000` (TCP) but you can configure
the range it is selected from with `JF_DIST_MIN_PORT` and `JF_DIST_MAX_PORT`.
Note that `JF_DIST_MIN_PORT` and `JF_DIST_MAX_PORT` are not available when running from source 
(using `mix phx.server`) as in development you don't have to worry about the port used for
forming a cluster.
As in the case of EPMD, in production deployment, you have to modify your firewall rules appropriately.

See [Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution](#deeper-dive-into-erlang-distribution) for more information.
:::

#### DNS strategy
When using DNS to finish distribution configuration you need to set additional flags:
1. Give your node a name with `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME`. It should be in format `<NODE_BASENAME>@<ip_address>`.
2. Specify a basename of other Jellyfishes in cluster with `JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME`.
3. Specify a query under which jellyfishes should be register in DNS with `JF_DIST_QUERY`


## EPMD Examples 


### Running from source

Run the first Jellyfish:

```sh
JF_DIST_ENABLED=true JF_DIST_NODE_NAME=j1@127.0.0.1 mix phx.server
```

Run the second Jellyfish

```sh
JF_DIST_ENABLED=true JF_DIST_NODE_NAME=j2@127.0.0.1 JF_DIST_NODES="j1@127.0.0.1" JF_PORT=4002 JF_METRICS_PORT=9468 mix phx.server
```

:::info

Note that when running the second Jellyfish, we had to change its HTTP and metrics ports.

:::


### Running with Docker (locally)

This simple docker compose file sets a cluster of two Jellyfishes.

```yml
version: "3"

x-jellyfish-template: &jellyfish-template
  build: .
  environment: &jellyfish-environment
    JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN: "development"
    JF_DIST_ENABLED: "true"
    JF_DIST_MODE: "sname"
    JF_DIST_NODES: "j1@jellyfish1 j2@jellyfish2"
  restart: on-failure

services:
  jellyfish1:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:5001"
      JF_PORT: 5001
      JF_METRICS_PORT: 6001
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: j1@jellyfish1
    ports:
      - 5001:5001
      - 6001:6001

  jellyfish2:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:5002"
      JF_PORT: 5002
      JF_METRICS_PORT: 6002
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: j2@jellyfish2
    ports:
      - 5002:5002
      - 6002:6002
```

Because we run Jellyfishes in the same Docker network:
* we can use `JF_DIST_NODE: "sname"`, which allows
us to reference Jellyfishes using their service names so
`jellyfish1` and `jellyfish2`
* we don't need to export EPMD (`4369`) or distribution (`9000`)
ports


### Running with Docker (globally)

When forming a cluster across multiple machines:
* you have to take care of [Extra Network Configuration](#configuring-a-cluster)
* you also can't use `JF_DIST_MODE="sname"` as you have to name Jellyfish nodes using their publicly available IP address
or domain names (see `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME` and `JF_DIST_MODE`)
* you can't simulate this setup locally as you won't be able to expose two EMPD ports on the same machine.
See [Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution](#deeper-dive-into-erlang-distribution) for more information.

See our [Jellyfish Videoroom deployment configuration](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish_videoroom/blob/main/docker-compose-deploy.yaml) for an example.

## Verifying that a cluster has been created

When a cluster is created correctly you will see a log indicating that one of your Jellyfishes connected to the other one, e.g.:

```
[info] [libcluster:epmd_cluster] connected to :"j1@127.0.0.1"
```

To see clustering in action, create two rooms using the same Jellyfish address and observe how they are load balanced:

```bash
curl -X POST -H "authorization: Bearer development" http://localhost:4002/room
# {"data":{"jellyfish_address":"localhost:4001"}}
```

```bash
curl -X POST -H "authorization: Bearer development" http://localhost:4002/room
# {"data":{"jellyfish_address":"localhost:4002"}}
```

Load balancing can also be tested using [Jellyfish Dashboard](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish-dashboard).
See [here](./tutorials/dashboard#loadbalancing-in-dashboard) for more information.

## Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution

The most tricky thing when running Jellyfish in a cluster is to understand the role of EPMD.
EPMD is responsible for mapping node names to ports they use.
Node names consist of two parts `nodename@hostname`.
`hostname` identifies a host machine, and `nodename` identifies a node on this machine.
When node A wants to connect to node B, it uses node's B name to ask EPMD (running on node B) 
for the actual port node B is accessible on.

**Example**

1. Let's assume that node's B name is `nodeb@192.168.1.2`.
1. Node A will contact EPMD using `192.168.1.2` IP address and port `4369`, and ask for the
port number used by a node with the name `nodeb`.
1. After that, node A can contact node B using `192.168.1.2` IP address and port returned by EPMD.

A couple of notes about EPMD:
* it always uses port `4369` (TCP)
* it is started automatically when running Jellyfish
* there is one EPMD per machine or one EPMD per docker container - 
that's why we can't simulate Global Docker setup locally

You can read more about Erlang Distribution [here](https://www.erlang.org/doc/reference_manual/distributed.html).

## DNS Example

This simple docker compose file sets a cluster of two Jellyfishes and starts a DNS with use of dnsmasq.

```yml
version: "3"

x-jellyfish-template: &jellyfish-template
  build: .
  environment: &jellyfish-environment
    JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN: "development"
    JF_DIST_ENABLED: "true"
    JF_DIST_STRATEGY_NAME: "DNS"
  restart: on-failure

services:
  app1:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:4001"
      JF_PORT: 4001
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: app@172.28.1.2
      JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME: app
      JF_DIST_QUERY: app.dns-network
    ports:
      - 4001:4001
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.2
        aliases:
          - app.dns-network
    dns:
      - 172.28.1.4:5353

  app2:
    container_name: name
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:4002"
      JF_PORT: 4002
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: app@172.28.1.3
      JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME: app
      JF_DIST_QUERY: app.dns-network
    ports:
      - 4002:4002
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.3
        aliases:
          - app.dns-network
    dns:
      - 172.28.1.4:5353

  dnsmasq:
    image: andyshinn/dnsmasq:2.78
    volumes:
      - /etc/resolv.conf:/etc/resolv.dnsmasq.conf
    command: -d -q --no-hosts --no-resolv --no-poll --server 127.0.0.11 --listen-address 0.0.0.0 --port 5353 --log-queries --log-facility=- --address=/./127.0.0.11
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.4
        aliases:
          - dnsmasq

networks:
  dns-network:
    ipam:
      config:
        - subnet: 172.28.1.0/24
```

Because we run Jellyfishes in the same Docker network we don't need to export EPMD (`4369`) or distribution (`9000`)
ports.

Commit message:

Remove JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME env

docs/cluster.md, after:

# Cluster

Jellyfish comes with a built-in clustering mechanism.
By a cluster, we mean a set of connected Jellyfish instances.
Whenever a new request for creating a room is sent to one of Jellyfishes in a cluster, this Jellyfish
communicates with all other nodes and creates a room on the node with the lowest load.
In response, a Jellyfish address (specified with `JF_HOST` environment variable) where the room was created is returned.

:::caution

Even when running a cluster of Jellyfishes, a room still has to fit into one Jellyfish.
Currently, Jellyfish doesn't offer an option to split a room across multiple machines.

:::

## Configuring a Cluster

Currently Jellyfish supports two clustering strategy `DNS` and `NODES_LIST`.
Configuration for each strategy is described below.
But before that you need to set two flags:
1. Enable distribution mode with `JF_DIST_ENABLED=true`
2. (Optionally) Define which distribution strategy will be used with `JF_DIST_STRATEGY_NAME`. <br/>
By default it is setup to `NODES_LIST`.

:::tip Distribution Environment Variables

List of all cluster-related environment variables is available [here](./getting_started/installation#distribution).

:::

:::tip Configure HTTP and metrics ports so they don't overlap with other nodes.

You can do this with `JF_PORT` and `JF_METRICS_PORT` environment variables.

:::

:::warning Security

Currently, Jellyfish distribution is not encrypted meaning that data between
Jellyfishes is sent as plain text.
Cookie does not provide any cryptographic security.
Do run a cluster only across machines in the same network!

:::

:::caution Extra network Configuration

Jellyfish leverages Erlang Distribution to form a cluster.
This means that we don't need to use any database where we would store
information about network topology.
Instead, some extra network configuration might be needed.

* Jellyfish in distributed mode uses a service called EPMD (Erlang Port Mapper Deamon)
that runs on port `4369` (TCP).
If you run Jellyfish using Docker, you have to explicitly export this port.
In production deployment, you also have to allow for traffic on this port in your firewall.
EPMD is started automatically when running Jellyfish, so you don't need to take
any extra steps to make it work.

* Jellyfish uses a random port for connecting to other Jellyfishes.
If you run Jellyfish using Docker, this port defaults to `9000` (TCP) but you can configure
the range it is selected from with `JF_DIST_MIN_PORT` and `JF_DIST_MAX_PORT`.
Note that `JF_DIST_MIN_PORT` and `JF_DIST_MAX_PORT` are not available when running from source 
(using `mix phx.server`) as in development you don't have to worry about the port used for
forming a cluster.
As in the case of EPMD, in production deployment, you have to modify your firewall rules appropriately.

See [Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution](#deeper-dive-into-erlang-distribution) for more information.
:::

#### NODES_LIST strategy

When using `NODES_LIST` to finish distribution configuration you need to set additional two flags:
1. Give your node a name with `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME`
2. Specify a list of nodes to connect to with `JF_DIST_NODES`

#### DNS strategy
When using DNS to finish distribution configuration you need to set additional flags:
1. Give your node a name with `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME`. It should be in format `<NODE_BASENAME>@<ip_address>`. <br/>
All jellyfishes must have the same `NODE_BASENAME`.
2. Specify a query under which jellyfishes should be register in DNS with `JF_DIST_QUERY`


## NODES_LIST Examples 


### Running from source

Run the first Jellyfish:

```sh
JF_DIST_ENABLED=true JF_DIST_NODE_NAME=j1@127.0.0.1 mix phx.server
```

Run the second Jellyfish

```sh
JF_DIST_ENABLED=true JF_DIST_NODE_NAME=j2@127.0.0.1 JF_DIST_NODES="j1@127.0.0.1" JF_PORT=4002 JF_METRICS_PORT=9468 mix phx.server
```

:::info

Note that when running the second Jellyfish, we had to change its HTTP and metrics ports.

:::


### Running with Docker (locally)

This simple docker compose file sets a cluster of two Jellyfishes.

```yml
version: "3"

x-jellyfish-template: &jellyfish-template
  build: .
  environment: &jellyfish-environment
    JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN: "development"
    JF_DIST_ENABLED: "true"
    JF_DIST_MODE: "sname"
    JF_DIST_NODES: "j1@jellyfish1 j2@jellyfish2"
  restart: on-failure

services:
  jellyfish1:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:5001"
      JF_PORT: 5001
      JF_METRICS_PORT: 6001
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: j1@jellyfish1
    ports:
      - 5001:5001
      - 6001:6001

  jellyfish2:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:5002"
      JF_PORT: 5002
      JF_METRICS_PORT: 6002
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: j2@jellyfish2
    ports:
      - 5002:5002
      - 6002:6002
```

Because we run Jellyfishes in the same Docker network:
* we can use `JF_DIST_NODE: "sname"`, which allows
us to reference Jellyfishes using their service names so
`jellyfish1` and `jellyfish2`
* we don't need to export EPMD (`4369`) or distribution (`9000`)
ports


### Running with Docker (globally)

When forming a cluster across multiple machines:
* you have to take care of [Extra Network Configuration](#configuring-a-cluster)
* you also can't use `JF_DIST_MODE="sname"` as you have to name Jellyfish nodes using their publicly available IP address
or domain names (see `JF_DIST_NODE_NAME` and `JF_DIST_MODE`)
* you can't simulate this setup locally as you won't be able to expose two EMPD ports on the same machine.
See [Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution](#deeper-dive-into-erlang-distribution) for more information.

See our [Jellyfish Videoroom deployment configuration](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish_videoroom/blob/main/docker-compose-deploy.yaml) for an example.

## Verifying that a cluster has been created

When a cluster is created correctly you will see a log indicating that one of your Jellyfishes connected to the other one, e.g.:

```
[info] [libcluster:epmd_cluster] connected to :"j1@127.0.0.1"
```

To see clustering in action, create two rooms using the same Jellyfish address and observe how they are load balanced:

```bash
curl -X POST -H "authorization: Bearer development" http://localhost:4002/room
# {"data":{"jellyfish_address":"localhost:4001"}}
```

```bash
curl -X POST -H "authorization: Bearer development" http://localhost:4002/room
# {"data":{"jellyfish_address":"localhost:4002"}}
```

Load balancing can also be tested using [Jellyfish Dashboard](https://github.com/jellyfish-dev/jellyfish-dashboard).
See [here](./tutorials/dashboard#loadbalancing-in-dashboard) for more information.

## Deeper dive into Erlang Distribution

The most tricky thing when running Jellyfish in a cluster is to understand the role of EPMD.
EPMD is responsible for mapping node names to ports they use.
Node names consist of two parts `nodename@hostname`.
`hostname` identifies a host machine, and `nodename` identifies a node on this machine.
When node A wants to connect to node B, it uses node's B name to ask EPMD (running on node B) 
for the actual port node B is accessible on.

**Example**

1. Let's assume that node's B name is `nodeb@192.168.1.2`.
1. Node A will contact EPMD using `192.168.1.2` IP address and port `4369`, and ask for the
port number used by a node with the name `nodeb`.
1. After that, node A can contact node B using `192.168.1.2` IP address and port returned by EPMD.

A couple of notes about EPMD:
* it always uses port `4369` (TCP)
* it is started automatically when running Jellyfish
* there is one EPMD per machine or one EPMD per docker container - 
that's why we can't simulate Global Docker setup locally

You can read more about Erlang Distribution [here](https://www.erlang.org/doc/reference_manual/distributed.html).

## DNS Example

This simple docker compose file sets a cluster of two Jellyfishes and starts a DNS with use of dnsmasq.

```yml
version: "3"

x-jellyfish-template: &jellyfish-template
  build: .
  environment: &jellyfish-environment
    JF_SERVER_API_TOKEN: "development"
    JF_DIST_ENABLED: "true"
    JF_DIST_STRATEGY_NAME: "DNS"
  restart: on-failure

services:
  app1:
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:4001"
      JF_PORT: 4001
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: app@172.28.1.2
      JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME: app
      JF_DIST_QUERY: app.dns-network
    ports:
      - 4001:4001
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.2
        aliases:
          - app.dns-network
    dns:
      - 172.28.1.4:5353

  app2:
    container_name: name
    <<: *jellyfish-template
    environment:
      <<: *jellyfish-environment
      JF_HOST: "localhost:4002"
      JF_PORT: 4002
      JF_DIST_NODE_NAME: app@172.28.1.3
      JF_DIST_NODE_BASENAME: app
      JF_DIST_QUERY: app.dns-network
    ports:
      - 4002:4002
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.3
        aliases:
          - app.dns-network
    dns:
      - 172.28.1.4:5353

  dnsmasq:
    image: andyshinn/dnsmasq:2.78
    volumes:
      - /etc/resolv.conf:/etc/resolv.dnsmasq.conf
    command: -d -q --no-hosts --no-resolv --no-poll --server 127.0.0.11 --listen-address 0.0.0.0 --port 5353 --log-queries --log-facility=- --address=/./127.0.0.11
    networks:
      dns-network:
        ipv4_address: 172.28.1.4
        aliases:
          - dnsmasq

networks:
  dns-network:
    ipam:
      config:
        - subnet: 172.28.1.0/24
```

Because we run Jellyfishes in the same Docker network we don't need to export EPMD (`4369`) or distribution (`9000`)
ports.
