# Deploy to Fly.io

Fly.io is the go-to platform for deploying Phoenix apps.
This guide will help you deploy Jellyfish server on Fly.io.

First, we recommend you read the [Fly.io docs](https://fly.io/docs/speedrun/) for deploying an app,
as well as the [tutorial for running apps which use UDP](https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/udp-and-tcp/).

The Fly.io uses `fly.toml` files for configuring an app.
You can create a `fly.toml` file for your app by copying the [`fly.toml.sample`](fly.toml.sample)

## Creating new app

Launch `fly launch`. When prompted, copy the configuration from the existing `fly.toml` file.

Select appropriate app name and region, don't create any databases.
Don't deploy the app just yet.

Running `fly launch` may modify the `Dockerfile`.
Make sure to remove the lines appended by flyctl.

## Configuring the App

Before deploying your app, make sure it is correctly configured.

### Dedicated IPv4
In order to transmit multimedia via UDP, the app has to be publicly availabla with an IPv4 address.
By default Fly.io uses shared IP. To enable dedicated IPv4 address run 

```
fly ips allocate-v4
```
You can learn more about dedicated IPv4 address [here](fly ips allocate-v4).

### fly.toml

Make sure you don't have the following lines in the `fly.toml`, which are automatically generated by `fly launch`.

We don't need to run migrations, since we don't have a database.
```
[deploy]
  release_command = "/app/bin/migrate"
```

Jellyfish uses `VIRTUAL_HOST` variable instead of the default `PHX_HOST`.
```
PHX_HOST = "jellyfish-media-server.fly.dev"
```

### Fly.io secrets

There are enviroment variables, which you may not want to keep in the `fly.toml` config.
Fly.io provides a way to store such values securely.

For Jellyfish we need to configure `SECRET_KEY_BASE` and `TOKEN` secrets.
```
flyctl secrets set SECRET_KEY_BASE=super-secret-key
flyctl secrets set TOKEN=development
```

  

Also, make sure you have set the correct port.
The enviroment variable `PORT` has to match the tcp `internal_port` defined under `services` section.
The default for Jellyfish is 4000.

## Deploying

With everything configured you can deploy the app 
```
fly deploy
```
